Analysis-plugin:-virustotal.md, before:

Notes on how to use the virustotal analysis plugin.

## Getting an API key

The virustotal analysis uses the public Virustotal API, and requires an API key to operate. The process for obtaining an API key is [here](https://www.virustotal.com/en/documentation/public-api/#getting-started).


## Running plaso

First run log2timeline to extract events:
```
log2timeline.py timeline.plaso image.raw
```
Note that hashing must be turned on for the virustotal plugin to work correctly. This is default setting for log2timeline.py.

Next run psort to tag events:
```
psort.py --analysis virustotal --virustotal-api-key $API_KEY -o timeline_with_virustotal_tags.csv timeline.plaso
```
If a file processed by Plaso is present in virustotal and has been detected as malicious by one more detection engines, it will be tagged with `virustotal_detections_$NUMBER_OF_DETECTIONS`. If the file is in Virustotal, but has not been detected as malicious, it will be tagged with `virustotal_no_detections`. If the file isn't in Virustotal, it will be tagged as `virustotal_not_present`.

Commit message:

Updated Analysis plugin: virustotal (markdown)

Analysis-plugin:-virustotal.md, after:

Notes on how to use the virustotal analysis plugin.

## Getting an API key

The virustotal analysis uses the public Virustotal API, and requires an API key to operate. The process for obtaining an API key is [here](https://www.virustotal.com/en/documentation/public-api/#getting-started).


## Running plaso

First run log2timeline to extract events:
```
log2timeline.py timeline.plaso image.raw
```
Note that hashing must be turned on for the virustotal plugin to work correctly. This is default setting for log2timeline.py.

Next run psort to tag events:
```
psort.py --analysis virustotal --virustotal-api-key $API_KEY -o timeline_with_virustotal_tags.csv timeline.plaso
```
If a file processed by Plaso is present in virustotal and has been detected as malicious by one more detection engines, it will be tagged with `virustotal_detections_$NUMBER_OF_DETECTIONS`. If the file is in Virustotal, but it hasn't been fully analyzed yet, it will be tagged with `virustotal_analysis_pending`. If the file is in Virustotal, but has not been detected as malicious, it will be tagged with `virustotal_no_detections`. If the file isn't in Virustotal, it will be tagged as `virustotal_not_present`.
