Maintainers-guide.md, before:

This page contains information relevant to plaso maintainers.

* [Mailing list](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki/Maintainers-guide#mailing-list)
* [Maintainer guidelines](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki/Maintainers-guide#maintainer-guidelines)
* [Maintainer tools](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki/Maintainers-guide#maintainer-tools)
* Generating plaso test files
* Generating API docs with Sphinx-doc
* [Generating plaso wiki pages](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki/Maintainers-guide#generating-plaso-wiki-pages)
* [Creating a packaged release](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki/Maintainers-guide#creating-a-packaged-release)
  * Mac OS-X packaged release
  * Ubuntu source dpkg for gift PPA
  * Windows packaged release
  * [PyPI](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki/Maintainers-guide#pypi)
* [Updating plaso's docker image](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki/Maintainers-guide#generating-plaso-wiki-pages)

## Mailing list

Maintainers mailing list: log2timeline-maintainers@googlegroups.com

## Maintainer guidelines

* [Feature requests and bug reports](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki/Feature-requests-and-bug-reports)

## Maintainer tools

If you intend to help maintain on plaso you'll also need to install the following tools:

* Sphinx-doc

### Sphinx-doc
#### Fedora Core

To install sphinx-doc on Fedora Core run:
```
sudo yum install python-sphinx-doc
```

### Mac OS -X

To install sphinx-doc on Mac OS-X run:

**TODO: add description.**

### Ubuntu

To install sphinx-doc on Ubuntu run:
```
sudo apt-get install python-sphinx
```

### Windows

To install sphinx-doc on Windows run:

**TODO: add description.**

## Generating plaso test files

To generate `pinfo_test.json.plaso` and `psort_test.json.plaso` run the following script:
```
./config/tests/generate_test_files.sh
```

## Generating API docs with Sphinx-doc

Plaso uses [sphinx](http://sphinx-doc.org/) to generate API documentation. The plaso configuration uses the [autodoc](http://sphinx-doc.org/ext/autodoc.html) plugin for automatic documentation generation, and the [napoleon](http://sphinxcontrib-napoleon.readthedocs.org/en/latest/sphinxcontrib.napoleon.html) plugin to read our “Google style” docstrings. 

The configuration is stored [here](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/blob/master/docs/conf.py) and the actual HTML documentation is built and stored with readthedocs.org, as described below.
The [merge_submit script](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/blob/master/utils/merge_submit.sh), which is run by the maintainers, triggers a [sphinx-apidoc](http://sphinx-doc.org/man/sphinx-apidoc.html) run, which will generate reStructured text files which readthedocs will use to generate the HTML docs. 

One little wrinkle in this pipeline is that to generate the API docs, readthedocs needs to `import` each python file. This will fail if it can't import all dependencies, and it's not possible to install native dependencies on readthedocs. The Sphinx configuration tries to take care of this by automatically mocking the dependencies in [dependencies.py](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/blob/master/plaso/dependencies.py) but it may be necessary on occasion to add a dependency explicitly to the sphinx config.

If you'd like to test the full HTML documentation build locally, not on readthedocs, cd to the ```docs``` directory and run ```make html```.

### Readthedocs.org

The plaso documentation on [readthedocs.org](https://readthedocs.org/projects/plaso/) is mirrored off the [plaso wiki](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki). The wiki git repo does not have the same webhooks as the plaso source git repo and thus we rely on a manual build trigger in the [merge_submit script](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/blob/master/utils/merge_submit.sh) to refresh the documentation.

The build of the [plaso-api documentation](https://readthedocs.org/projects/plaso-api/) is triggered by github service integration with readthedocs.

### Markdown compatibility

Define links as:
```
[description](URL)
```
Note that having a space between `]` and `(` breaks on readthedocs.

## Generating plaso wiki pages

Checkout the plaso wiki pages:
```
git clone https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso.wiki.git
```

To generate the [parser and plugins](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki/Parsers-and-plugins) page:
```
PYTHONPATH=plaso plaso/tools/log2timeline.py --use-markdown --parsers list > plaso.wiki/Parsers-and-plugins.md
```

Commit and push the changes to the wiki pages.

## Creating a packaged release
### Mac OS-X packaged release

Use l2tdevtools to download the .dmg files:
```
PYTHONPATH=. ./tools/update.py --download-only
rm -f build/hachoir*.dmg
```

Change to the plaso source directory and create a distribution package by running:
```
./utils/prep_dist.sh
./config/macosx/make_dist.sh
```

This will create a file named: plaso-${PLASO_VERSION}_macosx-10.11.dmg at the same level as the plaso source directory.

Note that you can pass this script an additional version suffix e.g. rc1.
```
./config/macosx/make_dist.sh rc1
```

### Ubuntu source dpkg for gift PPA

Copy the dpkg files to a debian sub directory:
```
mkdir debian && cp -r config/dpkg/* debian
```

Work around for a Unicode bug on launchpad:
```
mv test_data/ímynd.dd test_data/image.dd
IFS="
"; for FILE in `grep -r ímynd.dd | sed 's/:.*$//'`; do sed 's/ímynd.dd/image.dd/g' -i $FILE; done
```
Update the dpkg changelog:
```
export NAME="Log2Timeline";
export EMAIL="log2timeline-dev@googlegroups.com";
dch -v 1.2.1-dev-20150507-1ppa1~trusty --distribution trusty --urgency low "Modifications for PPA release."
```

Build a source package:
```
debuild -S -sa
```

Upload to the testing track of gift:
```
dput ppa:gift/testing python-plaso_1.2.1-dev-20150507-1ppa1~trusty_source.changes
```

### Windows packaged release

To create a Windows packaged release from the development release you also need:

* PyInstaller

#### PyInstaller

Download the latest source from:
```
git clone -b master git://github.com/pyinstaller/pyinstaller.git
```

**Note that setup.py build and install is currently disabled, so we need to run PyInstaller from its download directory.**

##### Rebuilding the PyInstaller bootloader

By default PyInstaller is code compatible with Windows XP SP2 (5.1). If you need to support a Windows version earlier you'll need to recompile the PyInstaller "bootloader" with Visual Studio 2008. Note that Visual Studio 2010 is not compatible with Windows 2000.

```
cd PyInstaller\bootloader
C:\Python27\python.exe waf configure build install
```

##### Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 Redistributable Package

If you're building with Visual Studio note that for some reason PyInstaller does not include the Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 run-time DLLs you can find them here:

* [Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 Redistributable Package (x86)](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=5555)
* [Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 Redistributable Package (x64)](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=14632)

#### Preparations

If you are intending to distribute the packaged release make sure to do the following steps:

`1`. Make sure the dependencies are up to date.

`2`. Remove code that cannot be redistributed due to a license restriction, by running:
```
sh utils/prep_dist.sh
```

**Note that you'll need to run this under Cygwin or equivalent.**

`3`. Distribute a copy of:
```
AUTHORS
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
LICENSE
config\licenses\*
```

#### Packaging

First check if the PyInstaller build script: config\windows\make.bat is configured correctly for your build environment.

From the plaso source directory run the following commands:

To build plaso with PyInstaller run:
```
config\windows\make.bat
```

This will create sub directories for each of the tools under dist.

To merge all the sub directories into one run:
```
config\windows\make_dist.bat
```

This will create: dist\plaso

To do a very rudimentary test to see if the packaged binaries work run:
```
config\windows\make_check.bat
```

And finally create a zip archive of: dist\plaso

### PyPI

Set up `.pypirc` to have both `pypitest` and `pypi`. Also see: [How to submit a package to PyPI](http://peterdowns.com/posts/first-time-with-pypi.html)

Always first test changes on `pypitest` before making changes to `pypi`.

To register a project or update its metadata run:
```
python setup.py register -r pypitest
```

To upload a new release:
```
python setup.py sdist upload -r pypitest
```

The package on PyPI does not contain the test files due to size limitations.

To create a release package with test data for release on github.
```
python setup.py sdist_test_data
```

## Updating the plaso's image on Docker's Hub to the latest version in PPA

We have a repository on Docker's hub : [https://hub.docker.com/r/log2timeline/plaso](https://hub.docker.com/r/log2timeline/plaso).

To update the image to the version X.Y.Z:

```
cd config/docker/
docker build -f plaso-from-ppa.dockerfile .
<... wait ... wait ...>
Successfully built f0edcb57611b
docker tag d4c356705bd9 log2timeline/plaso:X.Y.Z   # Makes a new plaso image
docker tag d4c356705bd9 log2timeline/plaso:latest  # Points the "latest" (default) version to this one
docker login   # Asks the maintainers mailing list for the credentials
docker push log2timeline/plaso:1.5.1     # Push the new versions
docker push log2timeline/plaso:latest
```

Commit message:

Update block about docker update

Maintainers-guide.md, after:

This page contains information relevant to plaso maintainers.

* [Mailing list](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki/Maintainers-guide#mailing-list)
* [Maintainer guidelines](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki/Maintainers-guide#maintainer-guidelines)
* [Maintainer tools](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki/Maintainers-guide#maintainer-tools)
* Generating plaso test files
* Generating API docs with Sphinx-doc
* [Generating plaso wiki pages](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki/Maintainers-guide#generating-plaso-wiki-pages)
* [Creating a packaged release](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki/Maintainers-guide#creating-a-packaged-release)
  * Mac OS-X packaged release
  * Ubuntu source dpkg for gift PPA
  * Windows packaged release
  * [PyPI](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki/Maintainers-guide#pypi)
* [Updating plaso's docker image](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki/Maintainers-guide#updating-the-plasos-image-on-dockers-hub-to-the-latest-version-in-ppa)

## Mailing list

Maintainers mailing list: log2timeline-maintainers@googlegroups.com

## Maintainer guidelines

* [Feature requests and bug reports](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki/Feature-requests-and-bug-reports)

## Maintainer tools

If you intend to help maintain on plaso you'll also need to install the following tools:

* Sphinx-doc

### Sphinx-doc
#### Fedora Core

To install sphinx-doc on Fedora Core run:
```
sudo yum install python-sphinx-doc
```

### Mac OS -X

To install sphinx-doc on Mac OS-X run:

**TODO: add description.**

### Ubuntu

To install sphinx-doc on Ubuntu run:
```
sudo apt-get install python-sphinx
```

### Windows

To install sphinx-doc on Windows run:

**TODO: add description.**

## Generating plaso test files

To generate `pinfo_test.json.plaso` and `psort_test.json.plaso` run the following script:
```
./config/tests/generate_test_files.sh
```

## Generating API docs with Sphinx-doc

Plaso uses [sphinx](http://sphinx-doc.org/) to generate API documentation. The plaso configuration uses the [autodoc](http://sphinx-doc.org/ext/autodoc.html) plugin for automatic documentation generation, and the [napoleon](http://sphinxcontrib-napoleon.readthedocs.org/en/latest/sphinxcontrib.napoleon.html) plugin to read our “Google style” docstrings. 

The configuration is stored [here](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/blob/master/docs/conf.py) and the actual HTML documentation is built and stored with readthedocs.org, as described below.
The [merge_submit script](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/blob/master/utils/merge_submit.sh), which is run by the maintainers, triggers a [sphinx-apidoc](http://sphinx-doc.org/man/sphinx-apidoc.html) run, which will generate reStructured text files which readthedocs will use to generate the HTML docs. 

One little wrinkle in this pipeline is that to generate the API docs, readthedocs needs to `import` each python file. This will fail if it can't import all dependencies, and it's not possible to install native dependencies on readthedocs. The Sphinx configuration tries to take care of this by automatically mocking the dependencies in [dependencies.py](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/blob/master/plaso/dependencies.py) but it may be necessary on occasion to add a dependency explicitly to the sphinx config.

If you'd like to test the full HTML documentation build locally, not on readthedocs, cd to the ```docs``` directory and run ```make html```.

### Readthedocs.org

The plaso documentation on [readthedocs.org](https://readthedocs.org/projects/plaso/) is mirrored off the [plaso wiki](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki). The wiki git repo does not have the same webhooks as the plaso source git repo and thus we rely on a manual build trigger in the [merge_submit script](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/blob/master/utils/merge_submit.sh) to refresh the documentation.

The build of the [plaso-api documentation](https://readthedocs.org/projects/plaso-api/) is triggered by github service integration with readthedocs.

### Markdown compatibility

Define links as:
```
[description](URL)
```
Note that having a space between `]` and `(` breaks on readthedocs.

## Generating plaso wiki pages

Checkout the plaso wiki pages:
```
git clone https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso.wiki.git
```

To generate the [parser and plugins](https://github.com/log2timeline/plaso/wiki/Parsers-and-plugins) page:
```
PYTHONPATH=plaso plaso/tools/log2timeline.py --use-markdown --parsers list > plaso.wiki/Parsers-and-plugins.md
```

Commit and push the changes to the wiki pages.

## Creating a packaged release
### Mac OS-X packaged release

Use l2tdevtools to download the .dmg files:
```
PYTHONPATH=. ./tools/update.py --download-only
rm -f build/hachoir*.dmg
```

Change to the plaso source directory and create a distribution package by running:
```
./utils/prep_dist.sh
./config/macosx/make_dist.sh
```

This will create a file named: plaso-${PLASO_VERSION}_macosx-10.11.dmg at the same level as the plaso source directory.

Note that you can pass this script an additional version suffix e.g. rc1.
```
./config/macosx/make_dist.sh rc1
```

### Ubuntu source dpkg for gift PPA

Copy the dpkg files to a debian sub directory:
```
mkdir debian && cp -r config/dpkg/* debian
```

Work around for a Unicode bug on launchpad:
```
mv test_data/ímynd.dd test_data/image.dd
IFS="
"; for FILE in `grep -r ímynd.dd | sed 's/:.*$//'`; do sed 's/ímynd.dd/image.dd/g' -i $FILE; done
```
Update the dpkg changelog:
```
export NAME="Log2Timeline";
export EMAIL="log2timeline-dev@googlegroups.com";
dch -v 1.2.1-dev-20150507-1ppa1~trusty --distribution trusty --urgency low "Modifications for PPA release."
```

Build a source package:
```
debuild -S -sa
```

Upload to the testing track of gift:
```
dput ppa:gift/testing python-plaso_1.2.1-dev-20150507-1ppa1~trusty_source.changes
```

### Windows packaged release

To create a Windows packaged release from the development release you also need:

* PyInstaller

#### PyInstaller

Download the latest source from:
```
git clone -b master git://github.com/pyinstaller/pyinstaller.git
```

**Note that setup.py build and install is currently disabled, so we need to run PyInstaller from its download directory.**

##### Rebuilding the PyInstaller bootloader

By default PyInstaller is code compatible with Windows XP SP2 (5.1). If you need to support a Windows version earlier you'll need to recompile the PyInstaller "bootloader" with Visual Studio 2008. Note that Visual Studio 2010 is not compatible with Windows 2000.

```
cd PyInstaller\bootloader
C:\Python27\python.exe waf configure build install
```

##### Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 Redistributable Package

If you're building with Visual Studio note that for some reason PyInstaller does not include the Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 run-time DLLs you can find them here:

* [Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 Redistributable Package (x86)](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=5555)
* [Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 Redistributable Package (x64)](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=14632)

#### Preparations

If you are intending to distribute the packaged release make sure to do the following steps:

`1`. Make sure the dependencies are up to date.

`2`. Remove code that cannot be redistributed due to a license restriction, by running:
```
sh utils/prep_dist.sh
```

**Note that you'll need to run this under Cygwin or equivalent.**

`3`. Distribute a copy of:
```
AUTHORS
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
LICENSE
config\licenses\*
```

#### Packaging

First check if the PyInstaller build script: config\windows\make.bat is configured correctly for your build environment.

From the plaso source directory run the following commands:

To build plaso with PyInstaller run:
```
config\windows\make.bat
```

This will create sub directories for each of the tools under dist.

To merge all the sub directories into one run:
```
config\windows\make_dist.bat
```

This will create: dist\plaso

To do a very rudimentary test to see if the packaged binaries work run:
```
config\windows\make_check.bat
```

And finally create a zip archive of: dist\plaso

### PyPI

Set up `.pypirc` to have both `pypitest` and `pypi`. Also see: [How to submit a package to PyPI](http://peterdowns.com/posts/first-time-with-pypi.html)

Always first test changes on `pypitest` before making changes to `pypi`.

To register a project or update its metadata run:
```
python setup.py register -r pypitest
```

To upload a new release:
```
python setup.py sdist upload -r pypitest
```

The package on PyPI does not contain the test files due to size limitations.

To create a release package with test data for release on github.
```
python setup.py sdist_test_data
```

## Updating the plaso's image on Docker's Hub to the latest version in PPA

We have a repository on Docker's hub : [https://hub.docker.com/r/log2timeline/plaso](https://hub.docker.com/r/log2timeline/plaso).

```
cd config/docker/
docker build -f plaso-from-ppa.dockerfile .
<... wait ... wait ...>
Successfully built f0edcb57611b
```
Your new image is `f0edcb57611b`. Make sure you've installed the version you want.
```
$ docker run -t -i  --entrypoint /bin/bash f0edcb57611b
root@a730e03d8386:/home/plaso# log2timeline.py --version
plaso - log2timeline version 1.5.1
```
Mark your new image with this version, and set it as being the latest.
```
docker tag d4c356705bd9 log2timeline/plaso:1.5.1
docker tag d4c356705bd9 log2timeline/plaso:latest
```
Then push the updates to Docker Hub.
```
docker login   # Ask log2timeline-maintainers@googlegroups.com for the credentials
docker push log2timeline/plaso:1.5.1
docker push log2timeline/plaso:latest
```
